### <center> Abhijith Gopal </center>

<center> abhijithg@gmail.com  </center>

---

### Skills

* *Languages:* Production experience in Ruby, Clojure, Python and C. Working knowledge of Erlang and Common Lisp.

* *Domains:* Big Data, Virtualization, Cloud Computing, Linux File Systems, Distributed Systems, DevOps.

* *Tools and frameworks:* Chef, Sensu, Vagrant, RabbitMQ, Cloudera Impala, HBase, Hadoop Streaming, OpenRefine, CsvDedupe, Leiningen, ZooKeeper, Storm, AWS, Neo4j.

* Familiarity with NoSQL databases, Natural language processing and machine learning techniques.

### Experience  (2006 - present)

#### Intrepid Online Retail (Styletag.com) (Technical Architect, November 2014 - November 2016)

Technologies: Rails, Ruby, Chef, Chef-Provisioning, Sensu, AWS ecosystem, Vagrant, Resque.

*Styletag 2.0:* Designed a purpose built e-commerce platform and replaced the SpreeCommerce based system.

  * Identified areas lacking formal business processes and helped formulate formal models to enable streamlined workflows.

  * Designed and developed several components: Catalog management system, S-expression based rule engine for Promotions, Cart functionality, Refund/Return system, Scenario generation framework for integration testing.

  * Mentored junior engineers, introduced sound engineering practices; code reviews, automated testing, standardization of development environments, etc.

  * Introduced chef-provisioning and developed workflows to completely automate the process of initializing/configuring environments on both workstations and on the cloud.

  * Introduced Sensu monitoring framework to monitor both instance and application health.

  * Prototyped a simple click tracking system in Clojure using Amazon Kinesis and Storm.


#### McKinsey Digital Labs, McKinsey & Company (McKinsey Digital Consultant, April 2013 - August 2014)

Technologies: Ruby, Cloudera Impala, OpenRefine, CsvDedupe, Hadoop Streaming, HBase.

* *Merger & Acquisition Analysis:* Applied machine learning and NLP techniques for finding customer overlap between two clients. This data was inturn used as a base for gathering KPIs for the M&A.

* *Airline Revenue Management application (Internal and Market performance analysis)*: Gathered business requirements and formulated formal models. Also designed and developed Data Simulation module for emulating ticket purchase and travel patterns of passengers.

* *Promotional analysis for the retail practice:* Re-architected the existing RDBMs based system using Hadoop and HBase. The new system outperformed the old system by 400x.


#### Higher Order Systems (Runa Inc) (Senior Software Engineer [DevOps & Platform], Sep 2011 - March 2013)

Technologies: Ruby, Clojure, Vagrant, Chef, Ironfan, Hadoop, HBase, ZooKeeper, Hive, AWS, Sensu, RabbitMQ.

* Introduced build and dependency management system for the Clojure application stack. Standardized the development environment on workstations using VirtualBox, Vagrant and Ironfan.

* Deployed and managed large Hadoop/HBase cluster deployment on AWS.

* Developed metrics and monitoring system for various components of the software stack using Sensu monitoring framework. Developed and open-sourced plugins for the same. All-in-all helped the company increase the reliability of the cluster and decrease the response time for detecting and resolving an incident.

* Developed mechanisms and used configuration management system for deploying all components of the software stack.

* Helped build AWS EMR-like functionality using custom AMIs to spin-up Hadoop clusters in a matter of few minutes.


#### Atlantis Computing Pvt Ltd (Senior Developer, Apr 2007 - Aug 2011)

Technologies: C, Ruby, RoR, Ruby-Shoes, Python, Erlang, Erlang OTP, Mnesia, VMware, Device Mapper, File Systems.

* *Atlantis ILIO: Storage Optimization Appliance with In-line Deduplication and Caching*

    * Developed internal tools (development, debugging and testing) for both the Kernel and Userspace portions of the code.
    * Designed and developed several core components for the data deduplication Linux Kernel module.

* *Atlantis ILIO controller: Software defined storage manager*

    * Designed and developed several modules and libraries to compose, provision, manage VM images and layer storage of virtual appliances.
    * Was instrumental in re-architecting and prototyping the system using Erlang/OTP and Mnesia.

* *Atlantis Unity administration console:* Virtual Application and Virtual Desktop lifecycle management software
    * Designed and developed several features and libraries for the administration console: Provisioning system for virtual desktops/applications, load balancer middleware, Policy engine for user/group and assets management, etc.
    * Application publishing and packaging: Was solely responsible for researching the use and workings of the Thinstall application packager and API. Developed interfacing mechanisms between the broker and Thinstall. Developed mechanisms to import, upgrade, publish and manage pre-packaged applications.
    * Designed and developed server-side APIs for several features of the web desktop: unity file explorer, shortcut manager, launching mechanisms for virtual resources, etc.

* *Atlantis ILIO Configuration tool:* Implemented the user interface and significant portions of the backend using Ruby/Shoes.

#### DeepRoot Linux Pvt Ltd (Developer, Nov 2006 - Apr 2007)

Technologies: PERL, Catalyst

* *LabourNet: A web application used for accessing and managing the details of the daily-wage workers (Developed for Maya India)*
  Designed and implemented the CRUD backend logic for the application using PERL/Catalyst.

### Education

* B.E, Computer Science *(Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering, 2002 - 2006)*
* Machine Learning - Qualitative track *(Standford University via ml-class.org)*
* Introduction to Philosophy *(University of Edinburgh via Coursera)*
* Understanding Einstein: The Special Theory of Relativity - Qualitative track *(Standford University via Coursera)*

### References

Available on request.

[Github](https://github.com/abhijith) [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/abhijithg)
